Hi there.
This is the Domaine de la Rue.
And welcome back.
Let's not sidestep a bit and let's look at what this topic reflection is about, and we'll also look
at where it is typically used.
Reflection allows programs to do two things.
One is it allows programs to introspect, known or unknown code.
For example, it allows us to view what methods, fields and constructors are defined in a particular
class or an object without even knowing their names at compile time.
That is, you can get all this meta information directly at runtime itself.
All you need is a class name as a string or an object reference or even the name of an interface.
And you can get all the meta information about that particular entity.
Such introspection would allow us to affect the runtime behavior to.
For example, if you just know the class name at runtime, you will be able to load that class, create
an instance of that class, and even invoke certain methods on that instance and even set or get values
of fields of that instance.
So basically reflection allows you to see what a class or an interface or an object has and even effect
their runtime behavior by doing stuff like creating instances and invoking their methods.
And we will see all of it in a demo, which we will soon be doing in a couple of lectures from now.
Let's now look at some common use cases of reflection.
It is like eclipse.
Use reflection to offer the class browsing capability.
For instance, in our source code.
As soon as we type an object reference followed by a dot operator eclipse would automatically display
all the methods which can be invoked on that object.
So that's possible due to reflection.
As a reflection is allowing eclipse to introspect the class of the object and context and show us all
the methods that can be invoked on that object.
Another use case of reflection is processing annotations.
Annotations are nothing but metadata added to source code.
That is the basically annotate source code.
For instance, when we write unit test cases, we annotate methods with add test annotation.
Let me pull up my editor and we can look at a test case.
Here is a unit test case and here we are testing a couple of methods.
So there are two test cases here.
This is one and there is one other here.
So the test case is annotated with this annotation called ET test.
So this is the unit test framework and unit would use something called as an annotation processor which
would basically process this class and it would look for methods that are annotated with this annotation.
So as we said, it will look for this meta information.
So this would be the matter information and then it would also affect the runtime behavior.
And the way it would do is it would it will load this class called student util test and it would create
an instance of it and then it would identify these methods which are annotated with this particular
annotation and would execute these methods, methods on the created instance.
So that's how it would work, the annotation processor.
And at the end of this chapter we have a coding exercise and in the coding exercise we will actually
build a very simple unit testing framework, but instead of processing.
So we will be processing this kind of a class.
But instead of looking for such an annotation, we will actually look for methods which start with a
certain way, with a certain keyword.
So in exercise we will look for methods which start with this keyword called test.
So we look for certain pattern in the, in the names of the method.
So that's how we will do it.
That's how it's going to be different.
So we will look at that when we get there.
So that's the annotation processor.
And for the class browsing, we already know.
So let's say we use this class called arrays, which is from the Java package and if we hit a dot here,
so it's going to show all the methods that are in this class.
So that's the class browsing facility feature that ID provides us.
So ID are the annotation processor.
So these are tools which make use of reflection.
And when we are building such kind of tools, it is common to use reflection.
OC So those are the two examples and let's just head back to slides now.
So those are two good examples.
Now Hibernate, which is an Aurum framework, also uses annotations.
And so Hibernate also uses reflection to identify members of a class that are annotated.
Another interesting use of reflection is when we create dynamic proxies and let's see what it is through
a simple example.
Let's say we have the student class with the method update profile.
Now let's say we want to measure the time it takes to execute this method, and maybe we also want to
do the same for many of our classes.
In such a case, we can drop an instance of student class in a dynamic proxy, and that proxy provides
the additional logic to measure the method execution time.
A client can invoke the same update profile method on the dynamic proxy, and the proxy would in turn
invoke the update profile method in the student class.
But additionally, it would also measure the time it takes for the method to execute.
Despite the code that measures the execution, time is kept separate from the update profile method,
which has the actual business logic.
So that's the key benefit of this dynamic proxy would be a very generic class and so can be used to
wrap any of our classes.
The implementation is a bit tricky and interesting.
I will include a link to a simple tutorial on this topic and you can probably check it out after you
are done with reflection.
But the main thing to note is that dynamic proxy is created via reflection.
So we now understand that reflection is about meta information, about classes and objects and interfaces
too.
But we also know from class during lecture that class object is all about this meta information.
And we briefly looked at a few of its methods to.
So the question is, are we going to use a class object here?
And the answer is yes.
So it's not just jobs class order that makes use of class object, but even we developers can make use
of class object while using reflection.
In fact, as this diagram shows, entry point for reflection is by getting a reference to the class
object.
So reflection is not possible without access to a class object.
And reflection is not constrained to just this class called class, but the class is from Java.
Lambda to reflect package are also part of the reflection.
But the entry point would still be the class object.
So the class, class and Java reflect package can be together considered as the reflection API.
In the next lecture we will see how we can get hold of a class object and after that we will do a demo.
And then we will also look at some of the classes from Java like Dot Reflect Package.
So that's about it and thank you.
And next we will look at how to access a class object.